---
layout: post
date: 2016-02-14
title: "Some trips change perspectives - New Year's eve 2015: Part II"
description: "Some of the best journeys of life are unexpected"
category: ["articles"]
tags: ["travel", "long-form"]
image:
    feature: 20151231-mountain-2.jpg
---

It's been more than a month since my last update, and I have no one other than
myself to blame for that. Moving on, I'll make sure I have regular updates here
on various things I have been working on. So now that I have put this out there,
let me continue with my story.

This is a continuation of my [previous post]({% post_url
2016-01-03-some-trips-change-perspectives-new-years-eve-2015-part-I %}). If you
haven't checked it out, you should to get the context for this post.

After we saw the sun set from the top of the hill, we climbed down to the
valley and headed back to the car. The ride up to the base of the hill was fun,
filled with scenic views and gorgeous vistas as far as the eye could see. The
way back down the hill, was a different kind of fun. The road wasn't the most
well layed and the area being remote, had no streetlights and the occasional
lonesome house every 5 kilometers or so. We made our way down the hill slowly,
anxiously wondering which wild animal's glowing eyes we would see in the trees
and bushes surrounding us. The experience was that of the beginning of a horror
movie in. I recommend everyone try this at least once. You never know what
you'll discover about yourself ;-) .

By the time we got back to the homestay, it was around 9 PM and the owners had
started a bonfire for the guests staying the night. Dinner was some of the most
amazing home cooked food one could ask for, and after planning for the next
day,the food, bonfire and the company of amazing people saw the night wind down.

Come next day, we slept in till noon; tired from the trek the day before, and
left by lunchtime. After eating lunch in one of the larger towns in the valley,
we headed out to [Kannur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kannur) a 100 kilometer
drive from where we were.

<iframe
src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m28!1m12!1m3!1d249630.3072555272!2d75.43785801432345!3d12.148129726671558!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m13!3e0!4m5!1s0x3ba50075627a7fff%3A0xaf8a66ea4651c1a6!2sMadikeri%2C+Karnataka+571201%2C+India!3m2!1d12.4244205!2d75.7381856!4m5!1s0x3ba422b9b2aca753%3A0x380605a11ce24f6c!2sKannur%2C+Kerala%2C+India!3m2!1d11.8744775!2d75.37036619999999!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sin!4v1455554935104"
width="650" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

Kannur is a quaint town in the northern part of Kerala, know for it's
long long desolate beaches. The road to Kannur is one well paved, filled with
long twisty sections and amazing greenery. It also helped that all the drivers
seemed to know how to drive on such roads. We reached Kannur at around 4 in the
evening blasting some good old hard rock.

In retrospect heading straight out to the beach at that time wasn't the best
idea since the sun was still out in full force and Kannur being a beach town,
was warmer than the cool valley we had come from, but at that time, it was the
best goddamn idea that we came up with. Even though it the temperature was
pretty hot and the reflection of the sun off the deep blue waters was blinding,
the beach took our breath away by it's sheer desolate beauty. I have been to
many beaches in my life, but being that they were popular tourist destinations,
they were always full with people at almost all times of the day, therefore
seeing an almost 8 kilometer stretch of empty beach was quite a sight to behold.

We decided to go have some food and come back to the beach when the sun wasn't
as harsh. Searching online for some of the popular places to eat, we came
across [Sahib's grill
kitchen](https://www.tripadvisor.in/Restaurant_Review-g777115-fd7350891-Reviews-Sahib_s_Grill_Kitchen-Kannur_Kerala.html)
a nice cafe off the road, with definite european influence.

<figure>
    <p><img src="/images/sahibs-grill-kitchen.jpg" alt="Sahib's grill kitchen"></p>
    <figcaption>
        Nice music and nice food to wind down.
    </figcaption>
</figure>

Finishing lunch, we headed into town, driving along to check out the local area
and some of the more remote locations. We were yet indecisive as to where we
would spend the night, since we could leave in the night and reach Bangalore
back in about 7 hours or stay the night and explore the area. Looking at the
amazing sunset in front of us, we pushed that decision to a later point in time
and decided to spend some time at the beach.

This time when we got there, it was a different atmosphere altogether. The sun
was setting, a cool sea breeze blowing in our faces, a long straight, empty
stretch of beach and all of this after a hearty meal. I must say, we were pretty
content with the way the weekend turned out to be. The four of us took in the
scenery in our own ways, walking along the beach in the cool surf or just
sitting and just taking in the amazing art that nature was painting in front of
our eyes.

<figure>
    <p><img src="/images/beach-painting.jpg" alt="A painting right before our eyes"></p>
    <figcaption>
        To say that it was breathtaking would be an understatement
    </figcaption>
</figure>

That was one of the most fulfilling moments I had ever had in my life. This was
a much needed mental and emotional break after a pretty rough couple of months.
Experiencing the beauty of the setting sun from the top of a mountain one day,
and from a beach the other, humbled me and gave me a brand new perspective on
everything I had been going through.

We stayed at the beach till long after the sun set, at peace with ourselves,
talking about the amazing weekend and it's highs. We finally decided to head
back to Bangalore for various reasons, too boring to recount here. Mentally
waving a last goodbye to the amazing beach in front of us, we headed back to
the car and left the way we came.

The drive back was just as epic as the drive there, only this time, I got to
experiencing driving in the hills in the night, where it is pitch dark with
trucks barreling downhill at speeds that would make you nervous on regular
roads. So after almost missing death for the 100th time, we got out of the
hills by the time we bypassed Mysore. The long weekend finally ended when I got
dropped off at my house in the early hours of the morning. As a side note,
I learned that night about the fact that Cafe Coffee Days stay open all night
on highways, good for a quick (albeit very expensive) bite when hungry.

This was the first proper road trip I had ever been on, first time I'd driven
such long distances on highways,(I drove the entire way back from Kannur to
Bangalore, my friends insisted that they too wanted to drive, but I was having
way too much fun to let them) and first journey I had been on that gave me
a whole new understanding of who I am. It could never have been possible
without the amazing ideas and companionship of my friends who I took this
journey with.

The trip just bolstered my love for traveling and experiencing the amazing world
all around us, just waiting for us to explore.
